---
layout: page
title: Visualizations: ROC
permalink: /view_roc/
---


This function plots the receiver operating characteristics curves of a probabilistic forecast dataset. It will plot one curve for each feature on the feature dimension- whether that’s tercile probabilities, or probabilities of exceedance. Note that the observations passed as the second positional argument, Y, must have the same number of features along the feature dimension as the first positional argument, X. That is to say, Y must be the binarized/one-hot encoded target data you used for fitting. 



The receiver operating characteristics curve (ROC) plots the true positive rate along the y-axis of the plot, and the false-positive rate along the x-axis. The curve is generated by plotting multiple points, where the difference between the points depends on the threshold by which one defines a ‘positive’ or ‘true’ prediction (assuming predictions are continuous between zero and one, representing probability). 



A completely random classifier, with large enough sample sizes, would yield a straight diagonal line from the bottom left to top right. A Perfect classifier would simply be a curve that was equal to 1 at every threshold. For this reason, the “Area under the ROC Curve” is used as a measure of probabilistic forecast skill where 0.5 indicates no skill, and 1 indicates perfect skill. 



This function will aggregate all of the spatial points within a dataset to produce curves for a general area. You can mask out areas, or select certain geographical subregions by using the xarray .sel and .isel methods.  

Returns: 
- None


Arguments: 
- X: an xarray data array following the XCast dimensionality conventions
- Y: an xarray data array following the XCast dimensionality conventions
	
guess_coords kwargs:
-	x_lat_dim (default: None): the name of the latitude dimension on X
-	x_lon_dim (default: None): the name of the longitude dimension on X
-	x_feature_dim (default: None): the name of the feature dimension on X
-	x_sample_dim (default: None): the name of the sample dimension on X
-	y_lat_dim (default: None): the name of the latitude dimension on Y
-	y_lon_dim (default: None): the name of the longitude dimension on Y
-	y_feature_dim (default: None): the name of the feature dimension on Y
-	y_sample_dim (default: None): the name of the sample dimension on Y

[source code](https://github.com/kjhall01/xcast/blob/b1764eaa1bfaf17c85447f6571caf016a13b2915/src/core/visualization.py#L76)
